# Destructuring 

https://github.com/lukehoban/es6features#destructuring

> Destructuring is fail-soft, similar to standard object lookup foo["bar"], producing undefined values when not found.

What this means is that values we cannot find on the right side of the expression become `undefined`:

```
// with arrays
const numberStrings = ["one", "two"];
const [one, two, three] = numberStrings;

console.log(three); // `undefined`

// with objects
const people = {
    "Bob": "engineer",
    "Shirley": "project manager"
}
const {Bob, Mary} = people;

console.log(Mary); // undefined

```

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment

> The object and array literal expressions provide an easy way to create ad hoc packages of data. Once you've created these packages of data, you can use them any way you want to. You can even return them from functions.
> One particularly useful thing you can do with destructuring assignment is to read an entire structure in a single statement [...]
> This capability is similar to features present in languages such as Perl and Python.

Rather than saying "ad hoc packages of data" here, I would say it allows you to _reassemble_ objects and arrays into a completely different structure. Anyone who has had to reformat `JSON` from an API (e.g. Twitter) into a format consumable by an app or plugin will see the value of being able to restructure an object.  All of this is possible with a little work in ES5; Although in all likelyhood we'd have used a library like [`underscore`](http://underscorejs.org/) to have done so in the past. 

The way I like to think of this syntax is that when you see array or object notation on the left side of an expression, it denotes _taking apart_ an existing array or object (depending on the brace).  We don't ever write `var [] = new Array;` in ES5, and this mental trick helps me remember this is _de_-structuring, rather than _creating_ a new object or array. 

Another way to think about it is that we are creating new _variables_ in this scope by _dereferencing_ an array or object.


> Without destructuring assignment, swapping two values requires a temporary variable [...]

Just think of this as a concise way to switch two or more values (and think of the code savings when you switch more than two.);


> Thanks to destructuring assignment, functions can return multiple values. While it's always been possible to return an array from a function, this provides an added degree of flexibility.
> You can also retrieve the return values as an array

We're still _just returning an array_.  What makes this more powerful in ES6 is how we can pick apart an array to get what we want / need, thanks to destructuring. 
